---
layout: post
title: Reboot
---
This is not the first time I have dabbled in open source software. From learning the minute details about git, navigating through BugZilla and issuing Pull Requests have all been a growing experience during the last semester and my small efforts are documented in my [blog](https://hunter-college-cs-ossd.github.io/f0cus10-weekly/). But this blog is an effort to enhance those explorations and dive deeper to understand how open source continues to shape the lives of software companies, even though they may hate it at one point. 

## Define
In that spirit, it is essential to know what precisely open source software is and how it differs from, say, free software. I (well, mostly my professor) found two definitions of software that has a certain openness to its core and presents itself as an alternative to proprietary software: 

1. [The Open Source Initiative Definition](https://opensource.org/osd)
2. [The Free Software Definition](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html)

"Why two definitions of software that is open to modification and extension," you may ask. Well, like most things, the philosophy regarding what exactly is the antithesis of something differs. Free software and open source software are both opposites of proprietary software and represent the resistance against inextensible and clandestine software with limited intellectual property rights. I do not need to summarise the history of how both came into existence, neither do I think it is beneficial to have a drawn-out philosophical discussion about the differences between these. Those interested can check out Richard Stallman's [mini-essay](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/open-source-misses-the-point.html#fsf-links) on the topic. 

## Superset Relationship
Going through both open source and free software definitions, one immediately notices that the latter reads like a constitution; while, the former is similar to a checklist. The Open Source Initiative (OSI) definition encompasses any software whose source code is open, modifiable and redistributable in various shape or form (the actual permissions vary from licenses to licenses). Under this umbrella, there exists a movement; a manifesto led by Richard Stallman and his colleagues who think it is not enough to have open source code with permissive licenses. Instead, they wanted to ascertain that a repeat of AT&T's closing down of Unix does not occur. Thus, the Free Software Foundation (FSF) was born who defined free software in a way that would ensure that its derivatives could not be used licentiously (pun intended) by powers that be. Why did Stallman create such a restrictively free license (or what came to be known as copyleft)? Once someone filters out the sanctimonious speech, the inherently paradoxical understanding of freedom, and the (slight) cult-like following, one begins to see the wisdom: exponential growth. 


 
